<!-- source_url: https://fusionauth.io/articles/oauth/modern-guide-to-oauth -->
"OAuth 2.0 Simplified | What is Oauth and How Does it Work | FusionAuth | FusionAuth Docs\n/\nArticles\nLight\nDark\nSystem\nLog In\nGet a demo\nOpen main menu\nResults\nRecent\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nItem 1\nSearch...\nOAuth 2.0 Simplified | What is Oauth and How Does it Work | FusionAuth\nBy Brian Pontarelli, Ahmed Hashesh and Dan Moore\nI know what you are thinking, is this really another guide to OAuth 2.0?\nWell, yes and no. This guide is different from most of the others out there because it covers all of the ways that we actually use OAuth. It also covers all of the details you need to be an OAuth expert without reading all the specifications or writing your own OAuth server. This document is based on hundreds of conversations and client implementations as well as our experience building FusionAuth, an OAuth server which has been downloaded over a million times.\nIf that sounds good to you, keep reading!\nWhat is OAuth 2.0?\n#\nOAuth 2.0 is a set of specifications that allow developers to easily delegate the authentication and authorization of their users to someone else. While the specifications don't specifically cover authentication, in practice this is a core piece of OAuth, so we will cover it in depth (because that's how we roll).\nOAuth in general was designed as a reaction to the\ndirect authentication pattern\n, which features applications requesting usernames and passwords when accessing user-specific data at other services. When utilizing OAuth, the user still provides this information, but they log into one platform and use tokens generated by that platform to grant access to data and perform actions in one or more other applications. These applications may be owned by third parties or by the same folks who control the authentication platform. This flexibility is one reason for confusion when it comes to OAuth.\nBefore authentication and authorization with OAuth was available, websites would ask users to enter a username and password into a form, for example the credentials for a Gmail account, to gain access to Gmail data. Users realized they didn’t want to grant full access to any old service. They preferred limited access instead. A user might want a third party service to access their email account, but only have rights to read contacts, not send email or add contacts.\nWhen using OAuth, a token, which has a limited lifetime, provides that constrained access. Connecting multiple applications is easier for users. It is also more secure since\nuser credentials\nare not shared. Auth is also easier for developers to manage because they only need to integrate OAuth 2.0 in their application instead of having their own database to store users' sensitive information.\nOAuth and SAML are sometimes confused. SAML is primarily an authentication system used for single sign-on, while OAuth is an authorization system that has authentication layered on top of it (OpenID Connect, or OIDC). Authentication is about confirming the user’s identity. Authorization is about deciding what services, functionality or data they can access. A detailed comparison between\nOAuth and SAML is found here\n.\nWhat does the phrase used above, \"delegate the authentication and authorization of their users to someone else\", mean, really?\nIt means that your application sends the user over to an OAuth server, the user logs in, and then the user is sent back to your application. But. There are a couple of different twists and goals of this process. Let's cover those next.\nHow Does OAuth 2.0 Work?\n#\nNone of the specifications cover how OAuth is actually integrated into applications. Whoops! But as a developer, that's what you care about. They also don't cover the different workflows or processes that leverage OAuth. They leave almost everything up to the implementer (the person who writes the OAuth Server) and integrator (the person who integrates their application with that OAuth server).\nRather than just reword the information in the s\n\n[... truncado, 102945 chars total]"